

# 📘 Probability Assignment

### **1️⃣ Question**

A man is known to speak truth 3 out of 4 times. He throws a die and reports that it is a six. Find the probability that it is actually a six.

---

### **2️⃣ Question**

In a factory which manufactures bolts, machines A, B and C manufacture respectively 25%, 35% and 40% of the bolts. Of their outputs, 5, 4 and 2 percent are respectively defective bolts. A bolt is drawn at random from the product and is found to be defective. What is the probability that it is manufactured by the machine B?

---

### **3️⃣ Question**

Ten cards numbered 1 to 10 are placed in a box, mixed up thoroughly and then one card is drawn randomly. If it is known that the number on the drawn card is more than 3, what is the probability that it is an even number?

---

### **4️⃣ Question**

A die is thrown three times. Events A and B are defined as below:

* **A :** 4 on the third throw
* **B :** 6 on the first and 5 on the second throw

Find the probability of A given that B has already occurred.

---

### **5️⃣ Question**

A die is thrown. If **E** is the event ‘the number appearing is a multiple of 3’ and **F** be the event ‘the number appearing is even’ then find whether E and F are independent ?

---

### **6️⃣ Question**

A box of oranges is inspected by examining three randomly selected oranges drawn without replacement. If all the three oranges are good, the box is approved for sale, otherwise, it is rejected. Find the probability that a box containing 15 oranges out of which 12 are good and 3 are bad ones will be approved for sale.

---

